in the third month after the children of
Israel had gone out of the land of Egypt
on the same day they came to the
wilderness of Sinai for they had
departed from resident had come to the
wilderness of Sinai and camped in the
wilderness so Israel camped there before
the mountain and Moses went up to God
and the Lord called to him from the
mountain thus you shall say to the house
of Jacob and tell the children of Israel
you have seen what I did to the
Egyptians and how I bore you on eagle's
wings and brought you to myself now
therefore if you will indeed obey my
voice and keep my covenant then you
shall be a special treasure to me above
all people for all the earth is mine and
you shall be to me a kingdom of priests
and a holy nation these are the words
which you shall speak to the children of
Israel
so Moses came and called for the elders
of the people and laid before them all
these words which the LORD commanded him
and all the people answered together all
that the Lord has spoken we will do so
Moses brought back the words of the
people to the Lord and the Lord said to
Moses behold I come to you in the thick
cloud that the people may hear when I
speak with you and believe you for ever
so Moses told the words of the people to
the Lord then the Lord said to Moses go
to the people and consecrate them today
and tomorrow and let them wash their
clothes and let them be ready for the
third day for on the third day the Lord
will come down upon Mount Sinai in the
sight of all the people you shall set
burns for the people all around saying
take heed to yourselves that you do not
go up to the mountain or touch its base
whoever touches the mountain shall
surely be put to death not a hand shall
touch him but he shall surely be stoned
or shot with an arrow with a man or
beast he shall not live when the trumpet
sounds long they shall come near the
mountain so Moses went down from the
mountain to the people and sanctified
the people and they washed their clothes
and he said to the people be ready for
the third day do not come near your
wives then it came to pass on the third
day in the morning that there were
thunders and lightnings
and a field cloud on the mountain and
the sound of the trumpet was very loud
so that all the people who were in the
camp trembled and Moses brought the
people out of the camp to meet with God
and they stood at the foot of the
mountain
now Mount Sinai was completely in smoke
because the Lord descended upon it in
fire its smoke ascended like the smoke
of a furnace and the whole mountain
quaked greatly
the blast of the trumpet sounded long
and became louder and louder Moses spoke
and God answered him by voice then the
Lord came down upon Mount Simon on the
top of the mountain
and the Lord called Moses to the top of
the mountain and Moses went up and the
Lord said to Moses go down and warn the
people lest they break through to gaze
of the Lord and many of them perish
also let the priests who come near the
Lord consecrate themselves lest the Lord
break out against them but Moses said to
the Lord the people can have come up to
Mount Sinai for he warned us saying set
bounds around the mountain and
consecrated when the Lord said to him
away get down and then come up you and
Aaron with you but do not let the
priests and the people break through to
come up to the Lord lest he break out
against them so Moses went down to the
people and spoke to them
you